1  Requirements

//set a date as yyyy-mm-dd instead of dd-mm-yyyy

  Users
//  1. Retrieve one User or all Users.
      Optionally fetch any combination of:
          (a) Authorized Vehicles
                (Should be accessed via Driver-Vehicle)
          (b) Rides driven by User
                (Should be accessed via Driver-Ride)
          (c) Rides on which User is a passenger
                (Should be accessed via User-Ride)

  Vehicles and Types
//  1. Retrieve one Vehicle or all Vehicles.
      Optionally include:
          (a) Drivers authorized to drive Vehicle.
                (Should be accessed via Driver-Vehicle)
          (b) Rides assigned to this Vehicle.
                (Should be accessed via Vehicle-Ride)

  Rides
  1. Add, remove User as passenger on Ride.
  3. GET details of from and to Location (for all Rides or one Ride).
    Optionally include:
        (a) Drivers per Ride
              (Should be accessed via Driver-Ride)
        (b) Passengers per Ride
              (Should be accessed via User-Ride)

//  Locations
//  1. Retrieve one Location or all Locations.
//      Optionally include:
//          (a) Rides from Location
//          (b) Rides to Location


2  Guidelines
Observe the following guidelines in your OpenAPI specification:

  1. Keep the Swagger documentation on OpenAPI at your elbow.

  2. You may write your OpenAPI specification as either a YAML or JSON file.

  3. For endpoints that return optional data, use query parameters. For example,
  to retrieve Rides from a Location, you might specify a Boolean parameter called
  from, as in:/locations/42?from=true. To fetch Rides both from and to a
  Location, use:/locations/42?from=true,to=true.

  4. In one-to-many relationships, add new entities on the “many” side with a
  Post to an endpoint named for that entity. Include the foreign key to the “one”
  side in the request body.For example, to designate User42 as a Driver, Post
  to /drivers with a request body like:{ "userId": 42,"licenseNumber":
  "ABCXYZ123","licenseState": "IN" }.

  5. For many-to-many relationships, there are
  various ways to create associations. Consider adding a User to a Ride, which
  requires creating a Passenger entity. You might:(a) Create a new passengers
  endpoint and Post to it, passing a request body like the following:{ "userId":
  17, "rideId": 42 }The Post method is appropriate because we are creating
  something new: an association between a User and a Ride.(b)Post to a new
  endpoint that combines a User and a Ride right in the URL. For example:
  /users/17/rides/42Note that both approaches generalize to associations among
  more than two entities.

  6. To delete a many-to-many association, it may seem that either approach in
  item 5 would work: simply send the same information as a Delete request.
  However, a Delete request isn’t supposed to carry a request body, making
  option 5a’s approach problematic. Option 5b’s approach is preferable for this
  reason. To remove the association, send a Delete request to/users/17/rides/42

  7.Distinguish endpoints that deal with a collection resource (e.g., all drivers)
  from those that deal with individual elements of a collection (e.g., a single
  driver).

  8. When referring to an element resource, use a path parameter called ‘id’.

  9. An endpoint that creates (Post) or updates (Patch) a resource must include a
  request body  containing the detailed data for the operation.

  10. A Post endpoint that creates an instance of a resource should never include
  an ID where the database schema uses a synthetic key (i.e., an automatically
  incremented integer). The database will itself create the appropriate ID.

  11. A Patch endpoint that updates an element resource should include the resource’s
  id in the URL (item8) and the request body should contain only the fields to be
  changed.

  12. Avoid duplicating request bodies, responses, and parameters by abstracting
  them into components. Use $ref as appropriate throughout your specification.
